some people are rich and many are poor
some are fortunate and many are not on
the very face of it that is wrong and
unfair and something must be done or so
you might think until you read the work
of our guests today dr. thomas sol on
uncommon knowledge now
welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson Thomas soul has studied and
taught economics intellectual history
and social policy at institutions that
include Cornell UCLA and Amherst now a
senior fellow at the Hoover Institution
dr. Sol has published more than a dozen
books including his newest volume just
published discrimination and disparities
Tom Sol welcome I hear good to be here
first question disparate impact the
legal standard holding the statistical
differences in outcomes among groups can
be enough to establish illegal
discrimination even in the absence of
evidence of intentional discrimination
that's the concept two quotations one is
you in your new book discrimination and
disparities quote the disparate impact
standard represents a major departure
from American legal principles where the
burden of proof is usually on those
making the accusation close quote here's
the second quotation this is the
journalist Lauren kerchner writing in
the Atlantic get ready attorneys have
used the concept of disparate impact to
successfully challenge policies that
have a discriminatory effect it's been
deployed in lawsuits involving
employment decisions housing and credit
over the past several decades disparate
impact is represented an important tool
for assessing and ass and addressing
discrimination close quote an important
tool are you persuaded oh I am lawyers
have made millions doing this right but
what about the what about the notion
that we need a disparate impact test
because discrimination particularly
racial discrimination particularly
against african-americans is so deeply
embedded in the fabric of this country
that people discriminate all the time
without even being aware of it if you're
going on that assumption then you don't
need the disparate impact theory you
just simply say what you've just said
the to dress it up as the disparate
impact Theory the disparate impact
Theory depend
on the truth although the assumptions I
might also add that whenever you look at
theory you see this implicit assumption
that then all of the groups are very
similar in their capabilities what they
want to do and so forth when you look at
facts you find disparate impacts
everywhere there's been a story in The
Wall Street Journal today about the
Irish you know well you know if you take
if you just go back to the 19th century
and you take the Irish the Italians and
the Jews just to pick three European
groups you know something like forty
percent of all the Italian immigrants to
the United States return to Italy the
Irishman Jews we're not going back to
anywhere they were glad they got out of
where like where they got out of and
their stay here if you look at things
like politics the Irish was so far more
advanced politically than either the
Italians of the Jews that for
generations
you had Irish politicians representing
neighborhoods they will overwhelmingly
Italian or Jewish
everywhere you turn my gosh you find
that you finally at least these
disparate impacts and then the book I go
in Edenton into nature that you don't
find things happening randomly around
the world you find 90% of all the
tornadoes in the entire world occurring
in one country namely the United States
and only it was part of the United
States you don't hear about tornadoes in
Maine or another cific Northwest and so
I don't know I think how much land area
there is in the world and 90% of right
in this one little place so reality the
large point here is reality is lumpy and
uneven in particular yeah and it just
doesn't fit the kind of bland smooth
reality that that seems to be in the the
premise in the back of the theorists my
yes all right discrimination and
disparities let's get the the underlying
argument of the book established here
I'm quoting you again Tom the fact that
economic and other outcomes often differ
greatly among individuals groups
institutions and Nations poses questions
to which many people give very different
answers at one end of the spectrum the
belief that those who have been less
fortunate are genetically less capable
that's the racist argument essentially
all right at the other end the belief
that those less fortunate are victims of
other people and that's the argument
let's be for me to put it crudely that's
the argument that liberals or
progressives tend to me yes okay
although I will say progressives we're
in the forefront of those putting the
genetic argument a hundred years ago
oh so explain that for example Woodrow
Wilson was a leader for the progressive
movie s and one of the leading racism
yeah of the day Oh see and many people
look at you've actually well his racism
was just an exception to his liberalism
no that was the what progressives were
pushing that whole time and not and not
and not not so much against blacks
because they just assumed that blacks
couldn't do anything but they were
pushing it against immigrants from
Eastern Europe and southern Europe and
it was they who pushed the ideas that
led to the great immigration
restrictions of the 1920s all right
again discrimination and disparities
disparities can reflect the plain fact
that success and many kinds of endeavors
depends on prerequisites peculiar to
each endeavor and a relatively small
difference in meeting those
prerequisites can mean a very large
difference in outcomes close quote
now you illustrate that point by
describing a sociological or
psychological experiment that professor
Terman
here at Stanford conducted at the
beginning of the 20th century or so well
it wasn't so much experiment it was it
was an empirical study he picked
something like fifteen hundred people
who had IQs in the top 1% and he
followed them or his program did for a
period of more than 50 years to see how
they turned out
and so and what I point out in there in
the book is that the disparities within
that narrow range that the top third for
example had more than 10 times as many
postgraduate degrees as the bottom third
among people who were all in the top 1%
so there are obviously many other things
that had to come together
the other thing was that two people who
failed to make the 140 IQ cot cutoff
ended up getting Nobel prizes in physics
as nobody among these 1500 ever did so
obviously there have to be a lot of
things come together and you write again
I'm quoting you here Tom the biggest
differentiating factor in that study was
family background yes and explain that
well the ones who are in that top third
they came from families that were more
educated the ones who are in that bottom
third something like almost 30 percent
or so or had a parent who had dropped
out of school before the eighth grade so
it doesn't matter how much brain power
you may have you know if you're not
rated raised in a home where people are
thinking where they doing an
intellectual thing you're not in the
same position as someone with the same
IQ who's looking at a family right it
has that that kind of surround so the
point is you've got these 1,500
brilliant kids you've followed them for
50 years and if if nobody knew anything
else about them they'd say gee some of
these people are relatively poor and
some of these people are relatively
unfortunate by in comparison with the
others and Tom soul says well the
genetic argument is ruled out of bounds
immediately because they're all
brilliant and they're all in the top 1%
by in terms of smarts but so is the
argument that anybody victimized them
the principal factor that accounted for
success as opposed to failure or ending
up was family background and that's
really not victimization that's a
question of almost cosmic luck many
family that's right yes this is why
spends too much time on the difference
between the firstborn child and the
others explain that well that I first
became aware of this years ago when I
came across some data on the finalists
from the National Merit Scholarship and
in five trial families that finalist was
the firstborn more often than the other
four put together and in four child
families that firstborn was the
finalists more often than the other
three and I doubt and two shall wherever
you do it and the only the only are the
only child who does better than the
firstborn is the only child
and then the other thing is that twins
tend to have several points lower
average IQ than people who are born one
of the time and so when you put all that
together it suggests that the amount of
parental attention a child guessed
makes a huge difference in the future I
see but again you can't you you you the
argument of victimization doesn't really
apply there that's what does genetics
right there they're born so the same
parents and raised under the same roof
right
all right the costs of discrimination
again the book discrimination and
disparities quote to many observers
reason as if intentions automatically
translate directly into outcomes and
then she go on you of all people go on
to quote approvingly from Friedrich
Engels
from Karl Marx's co-author in the
Communist Manifesto and you he has this
phrase what emerges that that angles
makes the argument intentions don't
matter as much as quote what emerges
yeah use that so explain that well what
angle says is that what each person
wills is obstructed by everyone else and
what emerges is something that no one
will and so you can't go from intentions
to or to results and is if they
emphasize that I Laila go into the
question of South Africa under apartheid
so that we don't get it and bogged down
in the question how much racism there is
and so forth because it's quite it's an
unambiguous right that the policy yes
they polishes the law and yet there
there are there were industries in South
Africa under apartheid where there were
more blacks higher than whites
and not and in occupations where it was
illegal to hire blacks at all and that
part of the problem that the people who
were imposing apartheid had what was it
there's money to be made by hiring black
workers and so whatever the racial use
will be employer he said he's thinking
about the money right and so you get all
these anomaly and of course my my
colleague and friend Walter Williams
when he did research in South Africa for
three months and he lived in an area
that was set aside for whites only
so and even in the housing mortgage you
had this kind of thing and at least one
other one a one area in South Africa
non-whites were a majority and one of
the areas set aside for whites only and
again it's the cost of the
discrimination and you get that with
minimum wage arguments as well that if
you have a minimum wage then that's said
above whatever it would be in a free
market then that means you're gonna have
more people applying because there's a
higher wage and they're gonna be fewer
people hired because of the higher wage
and so you're gonna have a chronic
surplus of applicants now in a market
where there say a chronic surplus of
qualified people of say 200 and there
are a hundred of blacks for example who
are qualified in and then if the
employer refuses to hire all hundred
black qualified people he still has two
hundred others he can call on and that's
it it's cost him nothing but if there's
no minimum wage now and there's no
chronic surplus every time he turns away
a qualified black person he has to have
someone who's not black who's also
qualified that he can hire and he may
not be able to find that person at that
price and so therefore the price will
have to go up and so it's costing him
and if he and if he doesn't raise the
price he's gonna have to keep his custom
was waiting because he doesn't have
enough people to do the job got it
so let me this question of the
difference between intentions and what
emerges yeah a couple of illustrations
from the American experience that you
described in in the book in the american
south after the Civil War whites
employed a number of measures to keep
down the earnings of black workers and
sharecroppers keep them poor yeah and
yet you write quote black incomes in
1900 we're almost half again higher than
they had been in 1867 to 68 in other
words just after the Civil War after
African Americans received their freedom
this represented a rate of growth higher
than that in the American economy as a
whole
just freed slaves improved their
material well-being faster than the rest
of the nation yes in spite of laws
intended to keep them down how come well
there was so much laws in this case it
was agreements agreements I'm saying and
many of these agreements simply fell
apart because especially in agriculture
Recor says the spring comes in you've
got to get yourself a workforce out the
attic to plow that ground and plant the
plant the seeds otherwise knows all
season right yeah and so the people who
decided they weren't gonna stick by the
landowners they weren't going to stick
by this agreement they get they got the
first dibs on the black workers and
sharecroppers and the others had to take
what was left over and and they got away
with a lot of really very terrible
cheating the first year or so but of
course by experience the guy who was
cheated the first year knows that his
cousin is getting paid more they still
you don't need to read about that you
don't need anything else you got on the
way or your cousins working got it got
it again
discrimination and disparities three
decades after the end of slavery laws
mandating racially segregated seating
and municipal transit vehicles began to
be passed in many southern communities
this didn't happen immediately after the
Civil War its toward the end of the 19th
century municipal transit companies
fought such laws how come yeah they may
have had exactly the same racial views
as the people who passed the law but the
people who passed the laws paid no price
for it people who own the transit
companies I see the votes only White's
could vote but but whites and blacks
could both supply money and so on so the
incentives were very different from the
well from the people who owned transit
companies they weren't then they were
for politicians got it one final example
of this difference between intentions
and what actually emerges the reality on
the ground housing right here in
Northern California beginning in the
1970s as you explained in the book San
Francisco and other communities right
here in Northern California began
enacting building restrictions in the
name of protecting the environment open
spaces protecting the environment and so
forth by 2005
the black population in San Francisco
was reduced to less than half of what it
had been in 1970 even though the total
population of the city as a whole was
growing close quote what happened well
as the prices as as as the restrictions
on prone housing were put in then of
course that meant the growing population
would was not accommodated by a growing
amount of housing in in Palo Alto for
example at the prices of housing almost
quadrupled in one decade it was not
because the old building luxury homes
because there was not a single new house
built in Palo Alto during that decade it
meant that the existing houses almost
quadrupled in price
it's amazing how in California there are
people asking what can we do about the
affordable housing right build more
houses and they'll appoint some
blue-ribbon committee nothing it's like
appointing a blue-ribbon committee to go
out there and find out why the ground is
wet after the rain you know I mean it's
really it's amazing how I think it's
almost miraculous the way they can avoid
the obvious so Tom if we were to apply
the disparate impact standard to the
question of the legal of the building
regime the legal building regime in San
Francisco we would be forced to conclude
that the devout liberals of San
Francisco had enacted a soft version of
Jim Crow absolutely but but they don't
seem to ever get around to applying the
disparate impact theory in those days
okay the great retrogression this may be
the biggest contrast between intentions
and what emerged and that is the way
that circumstances for African Americans
were starting to improve and then turned
around poverty discrimination and
disparities quote the plain fact is that
black the black poverty rate declined
from 87 percent in nineteen forty to
forty seven percent in 1960 prior to the
expansion of the welfare state that
began in the 1960s under the Johnson
administration there was a far more
modest decline in the poverty rate among
blacks
after the war on poverty began close
quote how could that have been well it
could be it could be because the things
that they thought was we're going to
help did not help and in many cases made
things much worse one would be the
welfare state which provide and and the
other would be things like minimum wages
which just price people out of their
jobs it's amazing how that simple
concepts never seems to get through to
so many people hmm
all right crime and in this case you're
writing not only about african-americans
but about low-income people generally in
the United States murder rates rates of
infection among with venereal diseases
and rates of teenage pregnancies were
among the social pathologies who steep
declines declines were suddenly reversed
in the 1960s nowhere was rampant
violence and other social pathology is
common among low-income people in the
first half of the 20th century when they
were more deprived as in the second half
when the welfare state had made them
better off in material terms close quote
again it's not the intention of anybody
enacting the welfare state to cause
increases in violence hmm but it
happened yes
what was the disconnect between
intentions and what emerged oh heavens
they misdiagnosed the causes of things
and therefore they misdiagnosed the
effect to expect for example in the case
of venereal diseases sex education was
introduced on a mass basis in the 1960s
and when the audience for doing it were
one to reduce the level of venereal
diseases and of teenage unwanted
pregnancies and both those things have
been going down on their own that is and
by 1960 the rate of infection for
venereal diseases was something like
half of what it was in 1950 and then
they bring in the sex education and it
turns around and shoots up among blacks
under homicide rates among black males
declined by 18 percent in the 1940s by
22 percent in the 1950s and then
skyrocket in the 1960s wiping out all
that progress and they they had a
different view of the world and if you
just did not meet the test of time
mm-hmm one more instance of this kind of
retrogression the family again
discrimination and disparities as of
1960 this one I just find this one
heartbreaking as of 1960 two-thirds of
all black American children were living
with both parents that declined over the
years until only one-third were living
with both parents in 1995 among black
families in poverty eighty-five percent
of the children had no father present
close quote so it's not the legacy of
slavery that destroys the African
American it's this bill is the legacy of
welfare state and by the way we see
legitimacy rates rising among everybody
yeah and in other countries and mmm you
know the very same thing in England and
what's the mechanism why does the
welfare state dissolve the family
structure for one thing it makes it
unnecessary for father's to support
their their their offspring and in fact
it makes it counterproductive in many
cases a very poor man who who but might
be able to support his family realize
his family will be better off without
him but on Eliane someone who strictly
irresponsible either the man of the
woman or both now pays no price for
being irresponsible the taxpayers pay
the price and actually the harm done to
the taxpayers which is serious still is
not not comparable to the harm done to
the piet to the families especially the
kids
yeah Moynihan was was excoriated for
pointing this out 1965 in the morning
one can report that's one hand report
what and and what what is some people
that took this as a way of putting but
putting down blacks what they don't
understand
was it one boy and a hand was a scholar
who knew that his own group the Irish
Americans had that very same problem at
the beginning of the 20th century and
more importantly one hands-on father
deserted the family when he was 10 years
old
he and his brother were out shining
shoes in Times Square in Central Park to
try to bring in some a few pennies to
help help them keep the house going and
so everywhere they'd been living in this
wonderful suburban area suddenly they
were in a very rough neighborhood and
they were shining shoes in Times Square
to try to try to make ends meet and so
he understood that this was one heck of
a problem you that people should be
warned about and he was simply
excoriated discrimination and
disparities much of the social
retrogression that took place is
traceable to the central tenets of the
prevailing social vision that unequal
outcomes are due to adverse treatment of
the less fortunate yes okay
so grant that argument that they're not
paying attention they're not they're not
squaring up attempting to square up
intentions with what emerges yeah but
here's the bit that's still baffling to
me
you mentioned the Moynihan report where
his central finding was again the
breaking down of the black family and
the out of wedlock birth rate then was
25% now it's over 70% by the way it's
over 30% among whites now that was more
than 50 years ago a half-century of
failing to try to align intentions with
results what is this willfully why is it
that we still have this prevailing
social vision that seems not only not at
to ask what are the results are our fine
intentions actually achieving the ends
we wish for but almost refuses to look
at the massive evidence to the contrary
that it was counterproductive so what's
going on quietly what's going on among
professional politicians is that it can
be the end of a whole career to admit
that you were wrong imagine you're
president and you send men into battle
in a war and they get a wiped out and
say you know really didn't have to fight
that war that is that is not something
you're gonna say it's something you're
not likely to say to yourself there'll
be a thousand rationalizations
and the ability of the human mind to
rationalize is just phenomenal all right
Marx and the kids the most spectacularly
successful political doctrine in the
20th century was Marxism based on the
implicit presumption that differences in
wealth were due to capitalists growing
rich by keeping the workers poor through
exploitation and what was wrong with
that assumption well it's it's a it
sounded good like so many others but
everybody can speak as a former Marxist
you were more so oh yeah if you consider
yourself a Marxist yes during the
McCarthy era by the way I am swimming
against the stream but but it simply
will never put 20 tests now the test I
suggest is a simple one but it is a test
and and if it's true that that the rich
are rich because they're keeping the
poor poor then in a country with lots of
billionaires usually correspondingly
have great amounts of poor people but if
you could but if you compare that actual
data there are more billionaires in the
United States than in Africa and the
Middle East put together and yet the
standard of living and of the poor in
the United States is higher than that of
people and then Africa in the Middle
East
so by that simple standard it just
doesn't hold up there are problems of
the theory a recent YouGov survey the
proportion of baby boomers that's my
group who hold favorable views of
communism is just 4% the proportion of
Millennials that's my kids and your
grandkids who hold favorable views of
communism is 19% yes roughly one in five
young Americans now holds a favorable
view of communism what do you do with
that datum well I think I I get very
pessimistic I know more recently and
during the election all this enthusiasm
for Bernie Sanders was taking place
while people in Venezuela under a
socialist government with lots of oil
around country I should I'm watching
natural resources we see natural
resources country was starving they were
breaking into in the grocery stores they
getting desperate they get food there
flooded day they're going into other
countries to try to try something to eat
and it and the two things never came
together and they saw socialism as an
idea socialism has always been a
wonderful sounding idea it's only when
you have put it into practice that you
discover their real problems Tom when
you were writing your column every so
often you would publish a column in
which you were you described your column
as random thoughts on the passing scene
last segment here let's do a few random
thoughts on the passage right listen to
this list the Thomas soul Reader 2011
intellectuals in race 2013 a new edition
of your classic work basic economics in
wealth poverty and politics 2015 and now
2018 discrimination and disparities and
do you know what I just did I just
listed the books you've published since
turning 80 Tom you haven't had anything
to prove to anybody for at least three
decades what keeps you at it why do you
work so hard well I'm happy you do you
understand but why do you well I don't
work nearly as hard because I psych i
just i discontinued the column i i i i
did that after spending some time and
you know seventy was a couple of photo
buddies and I realized that in those
four days we hadn't watched a single
news program we hadn't seen a single
newspaper I said that this is the life I
I don't I I don't need to be watching
anything there because most of the
foolish things that I said on these
programs we said 20 and 30 and 40 years
ago and refuted 20 and 30 and 40 years
ago by you quite often by me but many
other people I see this thing about
women get only X percent of what men yet
for doing the same job and then every
studies including studies done by women
who
who have the courage to do these studies
more so than men do
showing that no as as you hold various
things constant this whatever that
percentage is begins to shrink and
shrink and in some cases reverse the
among academic men and women in the
study that I did 40 years ago now if you
took never married women in academia
they may had a higher income than never
married men and they are data from not
only from my studies but a number of
other studies show that the real
difference is between women who are
married and who become mothers and
everybody else that we're and and men
who who get married have higher incomes
and men who have same education age and
so forth
who don't get married and women who get
married have lower than women who don't
get married and of course this is
because of the division of labor within
the whole and there are so many
statistical mess-ups among when they do
these comparisons I can't even get into
the ball but you're happier when you're
not reading the news absolutely but at
the same time you're also happier when
you're working on a book yes when I can
go out there and get the hard data and
find out what's really happening got it
got it this is the mandatory subject
Donald Trump during the presidential
campaign you wrote a column this is when
you were still had your column that
appeared under under the headline choose
Trump he'd be easier to impeach and you
wrote that voters faced a choice between
I'm quoting you two out-of-control
people one of whom is going to be
President and you said since Hillary
Clinton would be the first woman chief
executive she'd be very difficult to
impeach but Trump would be easier to
kick out so vote for Trump ah now that
he's been in office for a year what do
you make of him well if oh gosh you know
let me say that the just recently Walter
Williams yeah
a video of Donald Trump in his mid-30s
being interviewed uh and so I've had to
back off on one of the things I've said
which is that Trump is someone who has
simply never grown up he was very grown
up in his mid 30s thinking of
retrogression and it's scary because how
many people are more mature in their
mid-30s than they are at age 70 all
right and and given the trendline how
optimistic should we be about his
becoming more grown-up as time goes on
all right all right in terms of the
people he's put a surround himself with
I think on the whole they're a better
bunch than either the last two
presidents had so he has very good
people I think you have a madethe at
second fence you know but I put up with
other people around him and their
question is is he gonna listen to them
all right let me play you a brief
excerpt of Donald Trump himself this is
from the State of the Union address this
past January this will be my first time
it is something I'm very proud of
african-american unemployment stands at
the lowest rate ever recorded
[Applause]
[Laughter]
okay oh he he he produces this that
maybe the statistic isn't quite right
either maybe it is yeah and there you
see a shot you see Republicans standing
and applauding and there you should see
a shot of Democrats who are sitting on
their hands including many members of
the Black Caucus yes in Congress what do
you make of that that as with so many
other groups around the world the
leaders of groups that are lagging are
often themselves the one of the biggest
handicaps of those groups because they
have to depict the problems in ways it
will allow them to play the role of
rescuers and so there'll be no talk
about how you can do this or that for
yourself you'll be talking about what we
can get the government to deliver for
you and usually that's a lot of words
and things that have bad effects and
that's true not only with blacks in the
United States it's true of people in the
lower-income people in England and
elsewhere so it's actually dangerous for
people for less fortunate people to turn
to politics oh yes as a form of redress
there's no question about it if you look
in the United States or around the world
you think of spectacularly successful
people you can almost never name any
prominent leader to whom that success
can be attributed I mean who has made
the aive what Asian leader has led has
may have made a ages successful well
well the answer would be Lee Kuan Yew of
Singapore yes yeah you do with that
example
that's the outlier okay but he didn't do
that by by championing their cause in
Malaysia he did it by taking charge of
Singapore itself independently and
creating free markets that's right but
what do you mean he never had to tell
them that their problems were all caused
by somebody else and that's the first
thing that quote leader has to do if he
wants to remain a leader of some group
that's lagging and you look I'm always
amazed at countries that
the part where the the poorest part of
the country is the plot that wants to
split apart I mean the slow lacks are
the ones who who then wanted to break
away from Czechoslovakia in in Pakistan
it was the East Pakistanis who were
poorer than the West Pakistanis who
broke off the file to form a Bangladesh
and all of that helps the leaders it
does not help the people that they're
leading all right
so politics actually provides perverse
incentives yes particularly for the for
the less fortunate
yes absolutely Tom reparations we began
by talking about disparate impact the
idea that discrimination is so deeply
embedded in the American experience that
it can take place even in the absence of
an intention to discriminate so this
argument which is that there's something
some basic flaw or sin that's still with
us comes up in the case for reparations
long as quotation but it's it sets
something up but from tah nahi see
Coates in an article in the Atlantic
entitled the case for reparations white
supremacy is not merely the world work
of hot-headed demagogues but a force so
fundamental to America that it is
difficult to imagine the country without
it and so we must imagine a new country
reparations is the price we must pay to
see ourselves squarely the wealth gap
merely puts a number on something we
feel but cannot say that American
prosperity was ill-gotten and selective
in its distribution what I'm talking
about is more than recompense for past
injustice is what I'm talking about is a
national reckoning that would lead to
spiritual renewal close quote and Tom's
soul makes what of that I explained it
tells me now I mean I've made the right
decision not to read it Atlantic for
decades
slavery is a very big subject I have in
my home an entire book case of nothing
things books about slavery in various
parts of the world various times of
history and it's a fact is that slavery
has been a universal institution for
thousands of years as far back as you
can trace human history and what we're
looking at is if slavery is something
that happened to one race of people in
one country when in fact the the the
spread of it was around the world at
night and 1776 which is when Adam
Smith's published the wealth of nation
as well as when the United States got
started he said that Western Europe is
the only place in the world where there
is no slavery uh and even in Western
even the Western Europeans had vast
numbers of slaves in the Western
Hemisphere yes but not in Western Europe
itself and so if you're gonna have
reparations for slavery it's gonna be
the greatest transfer of wealth back and
forth and between and-and-and cross
hauling as they say in the railroads
because the the number of whites for
example who were enslaved in North
Africa by the Barbary pirates exceeded
the number of Africans enslaved in the
United States and in the American
colonies before that put together I know
but nobody is going to North Africa to
ask for reparations because nobody is
gonna be fool enough to give it to them
here if we have we have intellectuals
who can met who can imagine a different
history from the rest of the world even
though it's so similar to the rest of
the world Tom would you close our
program by reading a passage from your
marvelous new book discrimination and
disparities it's about people who want
to redress the past the only times over
which we have any degree of influence at
all or the present and the future both
of which can be made worse by attempts
at symbolic restitution among the living
for what happened among the dead who are
far beyond our power to help or punish
or
any serious consideration of the world
as it is today around us today must tell
us that maintaining common decency much
less peace and harmony among living
contemporaries is a major challenge both
among nations and within nations to
admit that we can do nothing about what
happened among the dead is not to give
up the struggle for a better world but
to concentrate our efforts where they
have at least some hope of making things
better for the living dr. Thomas sole
author of discrimination and disparities
thank you thank you for uncommon
knowledge and the Hoover Institution I'm
Peter Robinson
[Music]
I'd love to keep you for but you need to
go home and start your next book Tom
[Laughter]